How can I connect to an Amazon EC2 Linux instance with desktop functionality from Windows?
Issue

Initiating a connection to an Amazon EC2 Linux instance with desktop functionality using PuTTy provides terminal access but does not permit access to desktop functionality.
Short Description

This article describes how to connect to an Amazon EC2 Linux instance desktop by using Windows Remote Desktop.
Resolution

    Complete all steps described in the article How can I use AWS to quickly create and connect to an Amazon EC2 Linux instance?
    Note
    For purposes of this article, make sure that you are running an instance of Ubuntu 14.04 LTS (Trusty Tahr) as described in the related article. In addition, this article assumes the user name is 'ubuntu'; if you're using a different user name, make the appropriate substitutions (in steps 7, 8, 12, 17, and 18).
    Connect to your Linux instance as described in Connecting to Your Linux Instance from Windows Using PuTTy.
    Run the following commands from the terminal to install updates, an upgrade, and install additional packages.
         sudo apt-get update
         sudo apt-get upgrade
    Because you will be connecting from Windows Remote Desktop, edit the sshd_config file on your Linux instance to allow password authentication.
         sudo vim /etc/ssh/sshd_config
    Change PasswordAuthentication to yes from no, then save and exit.
    Note
    After making this change, press SHIFT+ : [colon] to open a new command entry box in the vim editor. Type wq, and then press Enter to save changes and exit vim.
    Restart the SSH daemon to make this change take effect.
         sudo /etc/init.d/ssh restart
    Temporarily gain root privileges and change the password for the ubuntu user to a complex password to enhance security. Press the Enter key after typing the command passwd ubuntu, and you will be prompted to enter the new password twice.
         sudo –i
         passwd ubuntu
    Switch back to the ubuntu user account and cd to the ubuntu home directory.
         su ubuntu
         cd
    Install Ubuntu desktop functionality on your Linux instance, the last command can take up to 15 minutes to complete.
         export DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive
         sudo -E apt-get update
         sudo -E apt-get install -y ubuntu-desktop
    Install XRDP and other xfce4 resources.
         sudo apt-get install xfce4 xrdp
         sudo apt-get install xfce4 xfce4-goodies
    Make xfce4 the default window manager for RDP connections.
         echo xfce4-session > ~/.xsession
    Copy .xsession to the /etc/skel folder so that xfce4 is set as the default window manager for any new user accounts that are created.
         sudo cp /home/ubuntu/.xsession /etc/skel
    Open the xrdp.ini file to allow changing of the host port you will connect to.
         sudo vim /etc/xrdp/xrdp.ini
    Look for the section [xrdp1] and change the following text (then save and exit [:wq]).
         port=-1
         - to -
         port=ask-1
    Restart xrdp.
         sudo service xrdp restart
    On Windows, open the Remote Desktop Connection client, paste the fully qualified name of your Amazon EC2 instance for the Computer, and then click Connect.
    When prompted to Login to xrdp, ensure that the sesman-Xvnc module is selected, and enter the username ubuntu with the new password that you created in step 7. When you start a session, the port number is -1.
    When the system connects, several status messages are displayed on the Connection Log screen. Pay close attention to these status messages and make note of the VNC port number displayed. If you want to return to a session later, specify this number in the port field of the xrdp login dialog box.

xrdp port number

Note: To make sure desktop icons appear correctly in xfce4, select an icon set other than GNOME. On the Applications menu, click Settings, and then click Appearance. Select an icon set, and then click Close.
Keywords

Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2); Ubuntu desktop; Remote Desktop; Linux; connect




 Install the Ubuntu Desktop environment:

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop 

2. Install XRDP using the following command:

sudo apt-get install xrdp

NOTE: User must add port 3389 to Security Groups. If you need assistance setting up your Security Group we have this article which should help:
Managing Your Security Groups in 13.5

3. Once the installation is complete you will need to start the XRDP Application:

sudo /etc/init.d/xrdp start

4. Create a new user that you will use to log into the XRDP:

sudo adduser USERNAME

NOTE: If the server does not accept the name you chose for the account add: "--force-badname" to the end of the command above.

5. The user setup in step 5 will only have login access to the instance but will not be able to install applications or complete administrator tasks. You can grant sudo access to this user by putting them into the sudo group:

sudo adduser USERNAME sudo

Example:

6. Now start “Remote Desktop Connection” from your local machine. From the Run line (Start -> Run) you can type "mstsc" or you can find the program in your Accessories menu.

7. Access the additional options by clicking Show Options:

8. Enter your Floating IP and Username in their respective fields and then click the Connect button to connect:

9. If the desktop comes up blank you may need to do this additional step:

Access your instance via SSH and navigate to the home directory of the user account you created:

su USERNAME

Create a file called .xsession:

nano .xsession

populate this file with this data:

gnome-session –session=Ubuntu-2d

Exit and save the file with CTRL+X. Then repeat Step #8. You now have a Desktop GUI for your Ubuntu instance!


buntu@ip-172-31-9-131:~$ history
     
     sudo -E apt-get update -y
     sudo -E apt-get install ubuntu-desktop -y
     sudo apt-get install xfce4 xrdp -y
     sudo apt-get install xfce4 xfce4-goodies -y
     echo xfce4-session
     echo xfce4-session > ~/.xsession
     sudo cp /home/ubuntu/.xsession /etc/skel
     sudo vim /etc/xrdp/xrdp.ini
     sudo service xrdp restart
     
     sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
     sudo apt-get install xrdp
     sudo /etc/init.d/xrdp start
     sudo adduser muni
     sudo adduser muni sudo

